Add screen stack management module (#1037)
smartdevicelink/sdl_evolution: proposals/NNNN-Add-screen-stack-management-module.md

# Add screen stack management module

* Proposal: [SDL-NNNN](NNNN-Add-screen-stack-management-module.md)
* Author: [Akihiro Miyazaki (Nexty)](https://github.com/Akihiro-Miyazaki)
* Status: **Awaiting review**
* Impacted Platforms: [ Core / iOS / Java Suite / JavaScript Suite / RPC ]

## Introduction
The purpose of this proposal is to reduce the burden on screen development for app developers by adding a screen management module.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Motivation

> Currently, the screens displayed by `Show` and `PerformInteraction` are independent, and there is no relation between each screen. However, in many cases of the App development process, each screen has a relationship with each other. Therefore, the screen transition specifications expected by the app developers may not be realized. By adding a screen management module and managing transitions, this problem can be solved and reduce the burden to screen development. For example, pressing the back button to enable screen transitions such as return to the previous screen. As a result, it is possible to build a better UX by reducing the inconvenience of use as much as possible for the users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the screens displayed by `Show` and `PerformInteraction` are independent, and there is no relationship between each screen. However, in many cases of the app development process, screens have relationships with each other. Therefore, the screen transition specifications expected by the app developers may not be realized. By adding a screen management module and managing transitions, this problem can be solved and we can reduce the burden of screen development. For example, we can allow pressing the back button to enable screen transitions such as returning to the previous screen. As a result, it will be possible to build a better UX by reducing the inconvenience of use as much as possible for the users.
```

<b>Current behavior</b>
 - `PerformInteraction` and `Show (template)` are independent screens.
 - HMI controls menu/submenu displays and screen transitions.
 - Contents displayed in menu/submenu are provided by `AddCommand`, `DeleteCommand`, `AddSubMenu`, `DeleteSubMenu` of the app.

>  - When pushing the menu item, the HMI sends an `onCommand` notification to the mobile, and then the mobile determines the operation.

Reviewer: Can you please specify what "mobile" refers to here?  This should be "mobile device" if it is phone-specific, "application" if it refers to app functionality, or "app library" if it refers to SDL library functionality (iOS, Java Suite, or JavaScript Suite).

Author: Hi, @theresalech -san.
Thank you in advance for your prompt reply.
In line 19, I will modify the word "mobile" to "SDL application" and make a commit.
Could you please confirm it again.
Thank you.

   After that, you cannot return to the menu screen, but you will return to the first template screen.

>  - Even if the `DeleteSubMenu` is notified from mobile while the submenu is displayed, it is rejected.

Reviewer: Same comment as above regarding "mobile"

Author: Hi, @theresalech  -san.
Thank you in advance for your prompt reply.
In line 21, I will modify the word "mobile" to "SDL app library" and make a commit.
Could you please confirm it again.
Thank you.

> <b>Current Screen transition process</b>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<b>Current screen transition process</b>
```

> - RPC related to menu/submenu are sent after the successful registration of app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- RPCs related to menu/submenu are sent after the successful registration of app.
```

```
AddCommand(commandID = 1，"command1")
AddSubMenu(menuID = 100, "submenu1")
AddCommand(commandID = 2，"command2")
AddCommand(commandID = 4，"command4", parentID = 100)
AddCommand(commandID = 5，"command5", parentID = 100)
AddCommand(commandID = 6，"command6", parentID = 100)
```

- RPC for `PerformInteraction`
```
CreateInteractionChoiceSet[
	 interactionChoiceSetID = 1000,
	(choiceID = 1,  menuName = "choice1"),
	(choiceID = 2,  menuName = "choice2"),
	(choiceID = 3,  menuName = "choice3") ]
```

> ![Screen_transition_process.png](../assets/proposals/NNNN-Add-screen-stack-management-module/Screen_transition_process.png)

Reviewer: There's a typo in this image that needs to be fixed: "mene" should be "menu".  Additionally, "proxy" should be changed to "SDL App Library".

Author: Hi, @theresalech -san.
Thank you in advance for your prompt reply.
I will modify the image file and make a commit it.
Could you please confirm it again.
Thank you.

## Proposed solution
To solve this problem, build the following screen management mechanism.

> - Add a screen management module, screenTaskManager, to SDL app library to manage screen transition stacks such as menu, submenu, `PerformInteraction` displays, popo-ups, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add a screen management module, `screenTaskManager`, to the SDL app libraries to manage screen transition stacks such as menu, submenu, `PerformInteraction` displays, pop-ups, etc.
```

- Add `button Name` for subscribe.

> - Add screen change notification process `notifyScreenChanged` to SDL app library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add screen change notification process `notifyScreenChanged` to each SDL app library.
```

> - Add the screen management module to [the iOS Guides](https://smartdevicelink.com/en/guides/iOS/displaying-a-user-interface/template-images/), [the Android Guides](https://smartdevicelink.com/en/guides/android/displaying-a-user-interface/main-screen-templates/) and [the JavaScript Guides](https://smartdevicelink.com/en/guides/javascript/displaying-a-user-interface/main-screen-templates/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add the screen management module to [the iOS Guides](https://smartdevicelink.com/en/guides/iOS/displaying-a-user-interface/template-images/), [the Android Guides](https://smartdevicelink.com/en/guides/android/displaying-a-user-interface/main-screen-templates/) and [the JavaScript Suite Guides](https://smartdevicelink.com/en/guides/javascript/displaying-a-user-interface/main-screen-templates/).
```
Do the JavaSE and JavaEE guides need to be updated as well?  If so, please add here.  Thanks!

Author: Hi, @theresalech -san.
Thank you in advance for your reply.
Regarding to the JavaScript Suite, I will modify it and make a commit it.
On the other hand, regarding to JavaSE and JavaEE, since I think these are the targets, I will modify this sentence to "SDL app library's documentations" and make a commit it.
Could you please condirm it.
By the way, I do not know what devices are JavaSE and JavaEE implemented.
So, could you please teach me those target devices.
Thank you.

Reviewer: I've provided a new suggestion for this section.  Regarding JavaSE and JavaEE, please find guides here: https://smartdevicelink.com/en/guides/javase/getting-started/installation/, https://smartdevicelink.com/en/guides/javaee/getting-started/installation/.

Author: Hi, @theresalech -san.
Thank you for your response.
I confirmed the Java SE Guides and the Java EE Guides.
But, I did not understand because there was no description the target devices.
For example, I know that the iOS Guides are for the apple mobile devices, the Android Guides are for the Android mobile devices and the JavaScript Suite Guides are for the cloud system.
What devices are the Java SE Guides for?
What devices are the Java EE Guides for?
Could you please give me an advice?
Thank you.

Reviewer: @Akihiro-Miyazaki this question is best suited for the [#android-help](https://smartdevicelink.slack.com/archives/C0K2W1V28) channel on the SmartDeviceLink Slack team.  Thanks!

Author: @theresalech -san,
Thank you for your comment.

Below is the `Button Name` for subscribe.

> Add element to enum value ButtonName. (HMI_API.xml, MOBILE_API.xml)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add element to enum value `ButtonName`. (HMI_API.xml, MOBILE_API.xml)
```

```xml
 <enum name="ButtonName" since="1.0">
     <description>Defines the hard (physical) and soft (touchscreen) buttons available from the module</description>
+    <element name="MENU" />
+    <element name="BACK" />
 </enum>

```

The sequence is as follows.

> 1. Subscribe to `BACK` on the Back button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Subscribe to `BACK` on the back button.
```

2. Subscribe to `MENU` on the menu button.

> 3. The app displays MEDIA screen with `setDisplayLayout`. ScreenTaskManager detects `newScreen` and stacks MEDIA screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. The app displays MEDIA screen with `setDisplayLayout`. `ScreenTaskManager` detects `newScreen` and stacks MEDIA screen.
```

> 4. The app displays the GRAPHIC_WITH_TILES screen with `setDisplayLayout`. ScreenTaskManager detects `keepLevel`, deletes the top layer screen of the screen stack, and stacks GRAPHIC_WITH_TILES screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. The app displays the GRAPHIC_WITH_TILES screen with `setDisplayLayout`. `ScreenTaskManager` detects `keepLevel`, deletes the top layer screen of the screen stack, and stacks GRAPHIC_WITH_TILES screen.
```

5. The user pushes the menu button. Then, head unit (HU) sends `OnButtonPress (MENU)` to the app.

> 6. The app displays the Menu screen with `showAppMenu`. ScreenTaskManager detects `newScreen` and stacks the menu screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. The app displays the menu screen with `showAppMenu`. `ScreenTaskManager` detects `newScreen` and stacks the menu screen.
```

> 7. The user pushes the submenu button. Then, the HU sends the `OnCommand` to the app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. The user pushes the submenu button. Then, the HU sends the `OnCommand` notification to the app.
```

> 8. The app displays submenu screen with `showAppMenu`. ScreenTaskManager detects `newScreen` and stacks the submenu screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. The app displays submenu screen with `showAppMenu`. `ScreenTaskManager` detects `newScreen` and stacks the submenu screen.
```

9. The user pushes the back button. Then, the HU sends `OnButtonPress (BACK_KEY)` to the app.
10. The app returns to menu screen with `showAppMenu`.

> 11. The app displays PerformInteraction screen with `setPerformInteraction`. ScreenTaskManager  stacks PerformInteraction screen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
11. The app displays PerformInteraction screen with `setPerformInteraction`. `ScreenTaskManager` stacks PerformInteraction screen.
```

> 12. The app hides PerformInteraction screen with `setPerformInteraction`, and displays menu svreen. ScreenTaskManager deletes PerformInteraction screen of the screen stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
12. The app hides PerformInteraction screen with `setPerformInteraction`, and displays menu screen. `ScreenTaskManager` deletes PerformInteraction screen of the screen stack.
```

![new_sequence.png](../assets/proposals/NNNN-Add-screen-stack-management-module/new_sequence.png)

## Potential downsides
None.

## Impact on existing code

> - A new module is added to the app library, therefore, it is affected as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A new module is added to each app library, therefore, those are affected.
```

> - Since there are new enum elements added, it affects SDL Core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Since there are new enum elements added, the proposal also affects SDL Core.
```

- It is necessary to modify the following documentation.
1. [the iOS Guides](https://smartdevicelink.com/en/guides/iOS/displaying-a-user-interface/template-images/)
2. [the Android Guides](https://smartdevicelink.com/en/guides/android/displaying-a-user-interface/main-screen-templates/)

> 3. [the JavaScript Guides](https://smartdevicelink.com/en/guides/javascript/displaying-a-user-interface/main-screen-templates/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. [the JavaScript Suite Guides](https://smartdevicelink.com/en/guides/javascript/displaying-a-user-interface/main-screen-templates/)
```

> 

Reviewer: Please also include JavaSE and JavaEE Guide links here if needed.

Author: Hi, @theresalech -san.
Thank you in advance for your prompt reply.
I think those are the target.
Therefore, I will modify this sentence to "SDL app library's documentation" and make a commit it.
Could you please condirm it.
By the way, I do not know what devices are JavaSE and JavaEE implemented.
So, could you please teach me those target devices.
Thank you.

Reviewer: I've provided a suggested change to this line.  Please see my other comment for links to the JavaSE and JavaEE guides.  Thank you!

## Proposed solution
To solve this problem, build the following screen management mechanism.

- Add a screen management module, `screenTaskManager`, to the SDL app libraries to manage screen transition stacks such as menu, submenu, `PerformInteraction` displays, pop-ups, etc.
- Add `button Name` for subscribe.
- Add screen change notification process `notifyScreenChanged` to each SDL app library.

> - Add the screen management module to the SDL app library's documentations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add the screen management module to the documentation for each SDL app library (iOS, Java Suite, and JavaScript Suite).
```

## Impact on existing code

- A new module is added to each app library, therefore, those are affected.
- Since there are new enum elements added, the proposal also affects SDL Core.

> - It is necessary to modify the SDL app library's documentations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It is necessary to modify the documentation for each SDL app library (iOS, Java Suite, and JavaScript Suite).
```
